j2xq for MarkLogic
==================

XQuery function binder for java. It allows you to call XQuery functions directly from Java, as if it were native functions.
It basically is a code generator, which takes java interfaces as input and generates concrete java classes and respective xquery stubs. This makes it easy for java programmers to call xquery functions without knowing anything about XCC. 

Features
--------
* Allows calling xquery functions from java code (opposed to module invocation supported in XCC)
* Generates java code (to call xquery functions using XCC) and xquery stubs. Save time for coding XCC in java app. All the necessary code would be generated by j2xq.
* Automatic type conversions (limited to supported types which are common between java and XDM)
* Strong typing ensuring less errors in the code
* Calling xquery functions from java allows easy unit testing of xquery functions by using frameworks like JUnit
* Follows convention over configuration, so getting started with j2xq takes very little time
* Supports xquery module namespace and function name customization through Java Annotations

How To
------

1. Download the repository as zip
2. Go into the 'j2xq' directory
3. Execute the ANT script 'build.xml'
4. Copy the java interfaces (.java files) to 'j2xq' directory
5. Run 'j2xq *.java' (w/o quotes) command from command line 
6. This would generate the java and xquery code in the 'output/j' and 'output/xq' directories respectively
7. Copy the java interfaces (defined by you) and the generated java classes from 'output/j' to the java project for the application you are building
8. Copy the generated xquery stubs from 'output/xq' directory into XDBC server root. NOTE: All the files has to be on the server root, not inside any directory under root.

Voila! Just add the body to the xquery functions and call the respective methods from generated java concrete classes (Impls).

For more information jump to the [WiKi](https://github.com/soumadri/j2xq/wiki)

Reference:
[Building Bridges from Java to XQuery](http://www.xmlprague.cz/2012/files/xmlprague-2012-proceedings.pdf#page=197) by [Charles Foster](http://www.cfoster.net/)

This work is under MIT license.